Updated the .NET Core to use the new SQLClient lib (#72189)
Azure/azure-content: articles/app-service/app-service-web-tutorial-connect-msi.md

In Visual Studio, open the Package Manager Console and add the NuGet package [Microsoft.Azure.Services.AppAuthentication](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.Services.AppAuthentication):

```powershell
Install-Package Microsoft.Data.SqlClient -Version 2.1.2
Install-Package Azure.Identity -Version 1.4.0
```

In the [ASP.NET Core and SQL Database tutorial](tutorial-dotnetcore-sqldb-app.md), the `MyDbConnection` connection string isn't used at all because the local development environment uses a Sqlite database file, and the Azure production environment uses a connection string from App Service. With Active Directory authentication, you want both environments to use the same connection string. In *appsettings.json*, replace the value of the `MyDbConnection` connection string with:

```json

> "Server=tcp:<server-name>.database.windows.net;Authentication=Active Directory.Device Code Flow; Database=<database-name>;"

Reviewer: My understanding here is that the value for the `Authentication` keyword is not important, but needs to match the one from our custom `SqlAuthenticationProvider`.

Is that correct?
If it is, then I'd suggest we either explain why we picked the "device code flow" authentication type.

Reviewer 2: I agree. I have the same question about the type choice (and looks like there's a . in there that shouldn't be there according to the AAD documentation). And if it's not important, then why the need to specify at all?

Author: @mderriey @cephalin added a note that explains why AuthCode Flow was chosen here

```

Next, you need to create a custom authentication provider class to acquire and supply the Entity Framework database context with the access token for the SQL Database. In the *Data\* directory, add a new class `CustomAzureSQLAuthProvider.cs` with the following code inside :

```csharp
public class CustomAzureSQLAuthProvider : SqlAuthenticationProvider
{
    private static readonly string[] _azureSqlScopes = new[]
    {
        "https://database.windows.net//.default"
    };

    private static readonly TokenCredential _credential = new DefaultAzureCredential();

    public override Task<SqlAuthenticationToken> AcquireTokenAsync(SqlAuthenticationParameters parameters)
    {
        var tokenRequestContext = new TokenRequestContext(_azureSqlScopes);

>         var tokenResult = _credential.GetToken(tokenRequestContext, default);

Reviewer 3: How often is does AcquireTokenAsync get called? If it's called frequently this code should cache the `AccessToken` returned from `GetToken`. Also since you're acquiring a token in an async context you should call and await `GetTokenAsync` rather than the synchronous `GetToken`.

Author: Updated accordingly. Thanks for the recommendation

Author: @schaabs @cephalin do you have a link that I could point people when adding the comment about best practices and whathaveyou? thx

        return Task.FromResult(new SqlAuthenticationToken(tokenResult.Token, tokenResult.ExpiresOn));
    }

    public override bool IsSupported(SqlAuthenticationMethod authenticationMethod) => authenticationMethod.Equals(SqlAuthenticationMethod.ActiveDirectoryDeviceCodeFlow);
}
```
In `Startup.cs` update the `ConfigureServices()` method with the following code:

```csharp
services.AddControllersWithViews();
services.AddDbContext<MyDatabaseContext>(options =>
{
    SqlAuthenticationProvider.SetProvider(
        SqlAuthenticationMethod.ActiveDirectoryDeviceCodeFlow, 

>         new CustomAzureSQLAuthProvider());

Reviewer: nit: this lambda is executed on every single request, so I'd move this outside given it only needs to be configured once.

Reviewer 2: If it's a nit, I vote for simplicity on part of the reader instead of "complexity in favor of best practice". At the end of the day this doc's priority is demonstrating the connectivity scenario and we want to simplify the code where it's possible/appropriate.

Author: Thanks both. I agree that this is not recommended practice but we should strive to keep the sample simple. We should add a note below that actually informs the reader that this method get's called with every call and therefore should be move outside. Thoughts @mderriey ?

    var sqlConnection = new SqlConnection(Configuration.GetConnectionString("MyDatabaseContext"));
    options.UseSqlServer(sqlConnection);
});
```

> [!NOTE]
> This demonstration code is synchronous for clarity and simplicity.

The above code makes use of the `Azure.Identity` library so that it can authenticate and retrieve an access token for the database, no matter
where the code is running. If you're running on your local machine, the `DefaultAzureCredential()` will loop through a number of options to 
find a valid, logged in account. You can read more about the `DefaultAzureCredential` class [in the docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential?view=azure-dotnet)

> That's every thing you need to connect to SQL Database. When debugging in Visual Studio, your code uses the Azure AD user you configured in [Set up Visual Studio](#set-up-visual-studio). You'll set up SQL Database later to allow connection from the managed identity of your App Service app. The `DefaultAzureCredential` class caches the token in memory and retrieves it from Azure AD just before expiration. You don't need any custom code to refresh the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's everything you need to connect to SQL Database. When debugging in Visual Studio, your code uses the Azure AD user you configured in [Set up Visual Studio](#set-up-visual-studio). You'll set up SQL Database later to allow connection from the managed identity of your App Service app. The `DefaultAzureCredential` class caches the token in memory and retrieves it from Azure AD just before expiration. You don't need any custom code to refresh the token.
```

> The `DefaultAzureCredential` class caches the token in memory and retrieves it from Azure AD just before expiration. You don't need any custom code to refresh the token.

I'm fairly sure that's not the case, unless something changed recently.
My understanding is that `Azure.Identity` itself does not handle token caching / renewal; the Azure client libraries like Blobs, Queues, ServiceBus, etc... do this through a custom HTTP pipeline.

Happy to be proven wrong, though 😆 &mdash; @schaabs?

Reviewer 2: > > The `DefaultAzureCredential` class caches the token in memory and retrieves it from Azure AD just before expiration. You don't need any custom code to refresh the token.
> 
> I'm fairly sure that's not the case, unless something changed recently.
> My understanding is that `Azure.Identity` itself does not handle token caching / renewal; the Azure client libraries like Blobs, Queues, ServiceBus, etc... do this through a custom HTTP pipeline.
> 
> Happy to be proven wrong, though 😆 — @schaabs?

In that case, I question the appropriateness of the change at all. The AppAuthentication approach so far is actually demonstrably simpler, especially since previously it was just 2 lines of c# code with no need for custom providers, AND it caches tokens. Now we're telling the customers now they need to write more code AND they need to add code to cache tokens? I don't mean to be harsh but this isn't an attractive scenario.

Reviewer 3: I agree that having the user code have to cache the token is less than ideal, but not all credential types in Azure.Identity cache tokens. We hope to provide a better story around SQL authentication in the long term, most likely by providing a `SqlAuthenticationProvider` similar to what @cmatskas has provided in this sample, which would handle any caching for the user, but while that is on our roadmap we currently don't have the work planned.

That said I don't think you can compare this new sample using Azure.Identity, with the previous sample using the AppAuthentication library 1:1. The old sample simply acquired a token and statically set that token on the connection. So it would seem to me that the old sample wouldn't handle token expiration at all. But perhaps I'm wrong here, as I'm not totally familiar with how EF creates creates and reuses connections.

Reviewer 2: @schaabs Sorry I had a long break in April. Can we compromise by going ahead with the change on my side but putting `SqlAuthenticationProvider` on the roadmap on your end?

I agree about not making 1:1 comparison with AppAuthentication. However I did read docs somewhere that said that AppAuthentication library handles caching by itself so the user doesn't have to. I don't think it's out of reason to expect the new tech to match that.

Author: Thanks for agreeing to unblock this @schaabs. I know that the team is currently working on a better SQLClient + Azure.identity experience, so good news on this front
